I regularly visit my mother
to clean the house, to prepare meals,
and, well, to just spend some time with her.
A criminal case was initiated
against Vitaliy’s mother, Olga Opaleva,
on November 12, 2018.
On November 25, officers raided her apartment
and the homes
of three other fellow believers.
She was 66 years old at the time.
They used a saw
to break through my door.
They asked me, “Why didn’t you open up?”
I couldn’t answer them
because just the night before,
I had had a heart attack.
Neither Olga’s age nor her health condition
stopped the law enforcement officers’ cruel
and inhumane treatment.
One of the officers called the investigator.
They told him what happened
and that they had called an ambulance.
Anyway, the investigator said,
“Bring her in for interrogation.”
So they did.
Olga spent the next two days
in a temporary detention facility.
After I had the heart attack,
I, of course, felt very ill.
They handcuffed me,
took me to court, and put me into that cage.
The court ordered Olga
to be placed under house arrest.
She is accused of discussing
Bible topics with people,
and these kinds of conversations
are interpreted by the investigation
as recruitment.
The prosecution doesn’t deny the fact
that Olga Opaleva
has done no harm
—no real harm to anyone.
On October 10, 2019,
Olga had to return to court.
When the Federal Penitentiary Service vehicle
arrived to take her to court,
she suffered a stroke.
Olga was eventually taken by ambulance
to a local hospital
and placed in intensive care.
According to her medical records,
when she was admitted to the hospital,
she was in critical condition.
At the time of her stroke,
she was under house arrest.
To say that I was worried
when I saw her in that condition
would be putting it mildly.
When our eyes met, the first thing she did
was smile and then she cried.
A few days after Olga had the stroke,
her only son, Vitaliy Ilinykh,
was detained.
All of this litigation began
with the criminal prosecution of my mother,
and now it has affected me.
The court imposed a restriction
in the form of a recognizance agreement
on Vitaliy.
Now both mother and son
are named in criminal cases
because of their faith.
As the investigator told me,
“If you remain one of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
in essence, then you’re an ‘extremist.’”
The investigator refused to listen
when I tried to explain the difference
between faith and a legal entity.
He said: “That doesn’t interest me at all.
“I’m just doing my job.
I’m told what to do, and I do it.”
It’s absurd to accuse
people like Olga and Vitaliy
of activities of an “extremist” nature.
It is becoming standard practice
among law enforcement agencies
to inflate the statistics
of their so-called successful fight
against “extremism”
by prosecuting peaceful religious believers.
Often when investigators
have accused somebody,
they subsequently bring charges
against their relatives.
Olga and Vitaliy do not intend to give up,
and the persecution has not caused
their faith in God to waver.
It’s better to be in prison with God
than to be free without God.